Washington has stepped up its criticism
of the way Israel is carrying out its
military offensive in Gaza the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin said
there is a gap between promises to
protect civilians and what is happening
on the ground Israel maintains that it's
taking steps to minimize harm the un's
top Aid official has said there's no
longer any meaningful humanitarian
operation in southern Gaza but officials
say there are promising signs that an
Israeli border crossing Karem Shalom
could soon be open to improve the flow
of Aid it comes as new images appear to
show dozens of Palestinian men stripped
their underwear with their hands tied
behind their back being held by Israel
Defense Forces these images are at the
beginning of Jeremy Bowen's report a
warning you may find them
disturbing video emerged this afternoon
of Palestinian men taken for inter
interrogation BBC staff recognized the
town of bet lahia in Northern Gaza and
we've geolocated the video there too
Palestinian diplomats said these were
Savage images evoking Humanity's darkest
times the Israeli Army said only that
suspects were being
interrogated posts on social media said
the men had been Sheltering with their
families at a un school and that others
were killed during the Israeli raid in
this photo the men have been moved to
another location which we have not been
able to
verify one of the captives diar alh
halut is a journalist he was forced to
leave his disabled daughter according to
the newspaper he works for in London
earlier at Israel's parliament a
prominent government supporter told me
that only Israeli forces can control
Gaza not the independent Palestine the
Americans want I think that when we talk
about uh two-state Solutions we are
solutions we are um using three words
and three lies it's not two it's not a
state and it's definitely not a solution
so what's the answer an everlasting
occupation first occupation is not the
word you cannot be you cannot one cannot
occupy his own land Israel is not an
occupier in Israel because that's the
land of Israel so what about Gaza again
that's the land of Israel land of Israel
you cannot be occupying it we're not
occupying it from anyone
in Gaza civilians are lost in the rubble
of Israeli strikes so far the world is
not close to controlling the powerful
chaotic forces Unleashed by this war the
UN Secretary General saying
International Peace and security is in
Jeopardy is demanding an immediate
ceasefire a Palestinian leader told me
that the US and UK must not veto the
next ceasefire resolution the United
States of America and Britain now has
the key if they oppose a resolution
about immediate ceasefire they will not
be complicit only with this aggression
they will be a participant in these war
crimes they have to approve the
ceasefire immediately because what is at
stake is the life of 2.3 million people
now half of them are
children without a political solution
this conflict will go on when if Israel
declares victory in Gaza
the war will not have a neat ending two
opposing forces are at work here on the
one hand pressure for ceas fire on the
other the determination of the Americans
and the British to give Israel the time
it needs to achieve its objectives and
one Western Diplomat I talked to was
thinking about perhaps another month now
the UN Secretary General wants to hurry
that process up by putting pressure on
them them and also shaming them into
taking action sooner as gaza's food cues
get longer the UN says it cannot run a
Dependable humanitarian
operation with hungry people jumping
warehouse fences Israel says World Peace
requires gaza's Liberation from Hamas
and that will take Force Jeremy bow BBC
News
Jerusalem well earlier we mentioned that
the US Secretary of State Anthony BL
issued a new warning to Israel about a
gap between intent and results to
protect civilians in Gaza here's what he
had to
say um as we stand here almost a week
into this campaign in the the south
after the end of the humanitarian pause
it is imperative it remains imperative
that Israel put a premium on civilian
protection and there does remain a gap
between exactly what what I said when I
was there the intent to protect
civilians and the the actual results
that we're seeing on the
ground well we can go live now to our
Gaza correspondent RTI Abu Alo who's
currently in G in Istanbul sorry um
rushi just bring us up to date what are
we hearing about the fighting that's
been happening overnight in
Gaza yeah the fighting is been
intensified in two different area the
first one is in the north it's jab
refugee camp it's the biggest refugee
camp in in the entire of Gaza trip out
of eight camps jabalia is the biggest
about 250,000 people used to live in the
camp many of them or hundreds of
thousands of them will lift the the area
but according to the local Authority run
by Hamas there about 100,000 people are
still in the camp most of them now they
they they live in un and government
school they are taking the UN school as
as shelter the humanitarian situation is
really very serious in the north since
none of the aid that come from Egypt
into Gaza Strip is reaching the north
because the Israeli tanks we understand
from sources there are surrounding the
the camp from the four Direction the
access in and out of the camp is
completely shut all of the hospitals
inside the camp are out of service
except very small Clinic run by the
Palestinian red Cent and we just he from
a journalist who was one of the one of
the very few remaining inside the camp
he said that for about three hours there
was very heavy bombardment around the
camp and in the camp City Center another
video he shared in social media showing
a huge destruction in the amamos and a
building in the camp City Center also he
said that the Israeli tanks are are
firing gas and
smoke pumps inside the shelters where
thousands of of Palestinians are taking
the UN school as as shelters again the
communication with the northern Gaza is
almost unvisible and very few people who
still having Israeli sin cards are able
to send some of the picture but it's
very hard to verify some of the footage
that been seen and some of the
information are getting from the the
camp but it seems that the situation is
very in in jabalia camp this morning
also about four or five air strikes in
kanun hunis is the second biggest city
in the southern part of Gaza where also
the Israeli tanks are advancing towards
theunis City from East and from North we
understand that there was some movement
for the tanks on the northern part of of
kanun and also the the humanitarian
situation is also very difficult inun
with hundreds of thousands of people are
taking hunus as as a as a shelter they
back before the seire they were told by
the Israeli Army to leave their homes in
the north and go to kanun and now the
focus of the Israeli operation isn't so
very confusing for the people they don't
know where to go some of them they they
went to the west and some of them they
are now far south in in RAF City near
the border with Egypt thank you very
much rishy abalu our correspondent our
Gaza correspondent who's now in Istanbul
thank you for joining us well we can go
live to Jerusalem and our correspondent
there yoland now yoland thank you for
joining us um let's talk about the Karem
Shalom Crossing because Israel says it's
going to open this Crossing that it has
into the Gaza Strip just how significant
would this development
be
well it's really hope that this will
streamline uh the movement of aid from
Egypt into Gaza um where of course
people now are desperately short on on
basic supplies and what we've seen since
the breakdown of that truce one week ago
is really the number of lores dropping
from about 200 Lor loads of Aid going
into Gaza each day down to fewer than
100 and so the UN Egypt others have been
calling really for weeks uh for Israel
to open its Kem Shalom Crossing at least
for the screening um of goods to take
place the security checks which Israel
demands uh the Kem Shalom Crossing is
where prior to the war in Gaza most of
the supplies that went into the Gaza
Strip each day hundreds of lur loads of
supplies were going in and so it is
really customized for those inspections
to take place so we understand this
development is due to take effect uh
within days and it's something that
Washington has really uh been demanding
uh has been negotiating for for
weeks thank you very much that's our
correspondent there your land now in
Jerusalem thanks for joining us